Subject Id,Subject Title,Subject Level,Lecture Units,Lab Units,Preparation Units,Total Units,Gir Attribute,Comm Req Attribute,Hass Attribute,Prerequisites,Corequisites,Subject Description,Joint Subjects,Meets With Subjects,Equivalent Subjects,Not Offered Year,Is Offered Fall Term,Is Offered Iap,Is Offered Spring Term,Is Offered Summer Term,Quarter Information,Instructors,Schedule,URL
"SP.100","Interphase","U",,,,,,,,"Commitment to register as a freshman in the Fall",,"Interphase is a seven-week program designed to enhance the academic success of students entering MIT. The program has a dual focus: it gives students an introduction to the MIT experience by exposing them to the rigors of a full subject load while simultaneously preparing them for academic success beyond MIT. The program includes calculus; chemistry; physical education;  physics; writing, oral presentation and teamwork skills; and supporting academic activities, including small-group learning. Students can earn transcript credit for subjects taken in the program, sometimes resulting in advanced placement in corresponding subjects taken in the Fall. Activities include day trips to area cultural, recreational, and business sites. Students participate in a range of personal and educational development seminars and activities designed to ensure their smooth transition to college life.",,,,,,,,Y,,,,"http://student.mit.edu/catalog/mSPa.html#SP.100"
"SP.110","Program XL: You Can Be a Success at MIT","U",,,,,,,,"First;year undergraduate standing",,"Academic enrichment program for first-year students, XL utilizes the innovative and effective small-group learning concept to enhance academic performance in calculus and science. Students meet in study groups of five to six participants with facilitators trained in effective classroom techniques and concept focus. Study groups help students to reinforce concepts learned in the regular curriculum, and help them gain mastery of concepts and problems that are often more challenging than those dealt with during lecture. Emphasizes the full participation of each student with the facilitator acting as guide. The regularity of weekly meetings enhances the students' understanding of MIT's academic expectations. After the initial meetings, students are encouraged to take more responsibility and to lead the group in problem-solving sessions. Each study group meets for a minimum of three hours each week. The meeting time is set by the XL facilitator based on students' schedules.",,,,,Y,,,,,"L. Uchima",,"http://student.mit.edu/catalog/mSPa.html#SP.110"
"SP.120","Program XL: You Can Be a Success at MIT","U",,,,,,,,"First;year undergraduate standing",,"Academic enrichment program for first-year students, XL utilizes the innovative and effective small-group learning concept to enhance academic performance in calculus and science. Students meet in study groups of five to six participants with facilitators trained in effective classroom techniques and concept focus. Study groups help students to reinforce concepts learned in the regular curriculum, and help them gain mastery of concepts and problems that are often more challenging than those dealt with during lecture. Emphasizes the full participation of each student with the facilitator acting as guide. The regularity of weekly meetings enhances the students' understanding of MIT's academic expectations. After the initial meetings, students are encouraged to take more responsibility and to lead the group in problem-solving sessions. Each study group meets for a minimum of three hours each week. The meeting time is set by the XL facilitator based on students' schedules.",,,,,,,Y,,,"L. Uchima",,"http://student.mit.edu/catalog/mSPa.html#SP.120"
"ISP",,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,"http://student.mit.edu/catalog/mSPa.html#ISP"
"SP.35UR","Undergraduate Research in Terrascope","U",,,,,,,,"",,,,,,,Y,Y,Y,Y,,"Fall:  A. Epstein\nSpring:  A. Epstein",,"http://student.mit.edu/catalog/mSPa.html#SP.35UR"
"SP.360","Terrascope Radio","U",3,3,6,12,,"CI-H","HASS-A","",,"An exploration of radio as a medium of expression and communication, particularly the communication of complex scientific or technical information to general audiences. Examines the ingredients of effective radio programming, drawing extensively on examples from both commercial and public radio. Student teams produce, assemble, narrate, record and broadcast/webcast radio programs on topics related to the complex environmental issue that is the focus of the year's Terrascope subjects. Includes multiple individual writing assignments that explore the constraints and opportunities in radio as a medium. Limited to 15 first-year students.",,,,,,,Y,,,"A. Epstein","Lecture,16-168/TR/0/2-5","http://student.mit.edu/catalog/mSPa.html#SP.360"
"SP.3S50","Special Subject: Terrascope","U",,,,,,,,"Permission of instructor",,"Covers areas of study not included in the regular Terrascope curriculum. Preference to students in Terrascope.",,,,,Y,,Y,Y,,"Fall:  A. Epstein\nSpring:  A. Epstein",,"http://student.mit.edu/catalog/mSPa.html#SP.3S50"
"SP.800","Freshmen/Alumni Summer Internship Program","U",3,0,0,3,,,,"",,"Prepares freshmen for summer internship or research experiences. Enables students to explore their professional interests and careers early, providing an edge in the increasingly competitive internship search process. Includes sessions on self-assessment and career exploration, professional etiquette, internship search skills, interviewing, communications, networking, and dynamics in the workplace. Attendance at the sessions is mandatory.",,,,,,,Y,,,"T. Menghi",,"http://student.mit.edu/catalog/mSPa.html#SP.800"
"SP.801","Freshmen/Alumni Summer Internship Program II","U",,,,,,,,"SP.800",,"Students who have completed the subject requirements for SP.800 and work in an approved internship or research experience are eligible for SP.801, the second component of the Freshmen/Alumni Summer Internship Program. Students continue their career development and prepare for their sophomore internship search through this course.",,,,,Y,,,Y,,"M. Pepin",,"http://student.mit.edu/catalog/mSPa.html#SP.801"